All right.
So we've spoken about the campaign video.
Now the next most important thing is your description.
So that's all of that text that you see below the video and it explained to people what your project
is all about in greater detail.
Now we mentioned when we were talking about creating the video to keep it as short as possible.
Now I'm going to give you the complete opposite advice for your description.
Try to make it as long as possible.
Now if you look at most of the successful projects you'll see that they usually about 1000 plus words
long and including all the images it tends to be around 13 pages in a Word document.
So the thing to understand is that whereas the video was to capture people's attention the description
is where people look to to find more information about your project so they might have a specific idea
in mind or they might have a specific hang up about why they don't want to pledge and it's your task
in this part in the description to try and convince them to pledge.
So this is very much a long form copy.
So if you've ever learned anything about copyrighting This is the place where you write that long letter
to convince people to pledge to convince people to buy.
So as I said before the video is the hook so that they'll read your description and then the description
is really the convincer to dispel people's concerns or worries and to convince them that your project
is worth pledging for.
So those are really great study that was done by some social scientists where they looked at the language
that gets people to pledge on Kickstarter.
So they studied 45000 crowdfunding projects and they looked at what was the language that was used in
the descriptions and they differentiated the language that led to the success of the campaign.
And the words that led to failure of the campaign.
So these are some of the phrases that led to the most success.
And if you look at all of them they're all phrased in the way that is thinking from the point of view
of the buyer or of the Pledger was those words that seem like it's more negative or words that lack
empathy and to belong to a project that did less well.
So these are a number of factors that you need to think about when you're writing your long form description.
Firstly is reciprocity.
So think about what are people going to get what are they going to get for your pledge.
Now we all know that there's a lot of support of people and there's a lot of great people out there.
But at the end of the day if I'm giving you a pledge of my hard earned money I want to know what am
I going to get in return whether it be a thank you note or if it's a mention on the web side or if it's
an actual product you want to make this clear in the description and that can be in the form of a graphic
which tends to make it easier for people to understand what exactly they're getting.
Or it can be you know pure text.
The next thing to think about when you're writing your description is scarcity.
Now if you're creating a Kickstarter project there's not really any real scarcity.
So you'll see a lot of campaigns that try to create scarcity.
So for example these 3-D printing guys say that they're confident that they can deliver 2000 printers
per month starting in September.
So they're limiting the rewards to this many printers.
And if they sell out they'll add reward his that will be shipped later.
So basically they're saying take action now and you'll be able to get your reward or get your product
sooner than people who pledged later.
Because we all know that we see something we think oh I'll just do it later I'll do it later and it
never gets done.
Right.
So it's a great way of incentivizing people to take action now and to pledge today.
Another thing is social proof.
So how can you insert social proof into your description of your project.
Well you can put in reviews of maybe your other projects maybe things that you've created in the past
that people have thought were pretty neat and the whole campaign itself is kind of a social proof.
People can see how many people have pledged how fast people are pledging how much they have pledged
how much of your goal you've reached.
So try and insert some maybe some reviews some social proof of how many people have already bought something
from you.
And they have not been screwed over basically.
The next thing is social identity.
What is your social identity now.
This means that your particular campaign text might be different from say somebody else's.
So if you're creating something like the cool is cooler where you're targeting maybe families maybe
the head of household maybe the person who's responsible for the current cooler.
Now that's going to be a completely different message to say a really highly technical product that
you're putting on.
So for somebody who's buying 3D printers it might be that they've had experience with 3D printers they
might have dabbled in it so they might know exactly what it is that they want to have to make your description
more technical for example.
But for something like the Lumia which is just a light right which anybody can own and anybody might
want then you really want to demonstrate where it can be used in which situations and have a sort of
more non-technical approach to how you pitch it in your campaign.
Text and the final thing is gratitude and this is probably one of the most important things in your
campaign.
Text people are taking a huge risk in pledging their hard earned money into your Kickstarter campaign
and you have to show some gratitude for them taking that risk and believing in you.
There's many projects where you have rude creators or creators who feel very deserving of their success
and in fact it's actually a community that's really propping you up.
So try to embrace your gratitude for your backers and you can show this in your campaign text and also
in your updates and try to thank people for their time and the support and their belief in you.
As my mother says being grateful and being nice to people can't hurt anybody.
And end the day they'll always be some people who appreciate it.
And the final thing is authority what makes you qualified to create this project.
What makes you somebody who's not going to run away with everybody's money.
Right.
So in order to show authority in our campaign tax we actually included some of our corporate partners
and the people that we've worked with in the years that we've been running our in-person programming
boot camp.
So they include names that most people have heard of like the ones with the economic signs which is
really big university here in the U.K. We've also worked with the National Health Service in the U.K.
and as well as Twitter and Barclays and a whole bunch of awesome companies.
And we had fun while working with them but we also get to show both social proof as well as authority.
You know that we are qualified to actually bring people this project and we will deliver on our word.
So that's a little bit about the description for your campaign.
Trying to include some of these elements I've spoken about in that text and try to read through it and
imagining that you are a potential backer and trying to answer or at least address some of the concerns
that people might have or some of the holdback that they might have from pledging.